Background

We are engaging you to help build XRAuthor, an open-source web-based tool that the Centre for Immersification is working on. The tool will also be part of a broader initiative (undisclosed project name) with NVIDIA to produce more accessible tools for building immersive systems.

XRAuthor is designed as a prototype to help educators create interactive learning content in multiple formats via a simple and familiar process of video recording. After recording a video demonstration of a particular learning activity, an educator user can use the XRAuthor web interface to perform simple editing to generate the following 3 formats for student users to consume:

Video Format: students view, via a browser, the recorded video segmented into steps, and use a typical online quiz interface to answer multiple-choice questions for each step;
Interactive Format: students view, via a browser, the same segmented video but now augmented with animated virtual objects, and can interact with these virtual objects to complete tasks for each step;
VR Format: students view, via a head-mounted display (HMD) like the Meta Quest, an immersive version of the learning activity with animated objects presented via a 3D virtual environment, and can interact with these virtual objects through XR devices like the Quest controllers.


Your assignment

Note that for all requirements listed below, the core app should be web-based, implemented using WebXR, ThreeJS, Babylon.js, A-Frame and/or other derived javascript libraries. The intended deployment medium, however, can be on the mobile phone, iPad or HMDs.

The following user story captures the gist of the assignment. You will be assessed by the extent of completion, as well as the quality of completion, for each ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA listed for the user story.

As a chemistry student consuming learning content from XRAuthor,
I want chemistry-related interactions with a new *XR Format* learning content generated by XRAuthor,
so that I can have an improved immersive chemistry-specific learning experience.

ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA:

As the tech lead of XRAuthor, I should be able to...

A1. Access a GitHub repository of your entire source code with chektien and songjia added with read-only access, that includes
- a README.md describing the software architecture of the project, along with instructions for obtaining any dependencies required
- include your full name and student ID clearly at the top of your repo
- provide a code snippet of how the main.js file in the XRAuthor project can import your module and call the required function(s) to launch the immersive learning experience
- include a link to the video tutorial you recorded below

A2. See a ~2-min video tutorial, created by XRAuthor, for kids to understand a basic chemical equation/reaction. You can take inspiration from the following videos:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aMU1RaRulSo&t=78s
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWJQpuv9ElE
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eNsVaUCzvLA
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TUuABq95BBM

A3. Call a function function createXRScene(canvasID, authoringData) that launches this student-facing learning experience within the XRAuthor interface.

A4. See well-documented API-style function and class (where applicable) headers.

A5. Access a stand-alone working web app that demonstrates the features in the Bx criteria below.


B1. See a virtual table with dynamically generated 3D atoms (e.g., Hydrogen, Oxygen, Carbon, etc.) that correspond to the atoms you have used in the recorded video from A2. The virtual table with the atoms should be situated in one of the following (choose only one option):
- B1-1. A 3D virtual environment (VE) suitable for VR with a consistent theme (e.g., a classroom).
- B1-2. A live video feed (via a camera) of the real world suitable for an AR experience.

B2. Use a grab interaction to pick up atom and molecule objects to translate them in the environment.

B3. Use an attach interaction to join two atom objects with a bond to eventually construct a molecule. The atom objects can already have bonds with other atoms as part of a molecule. There should be a clear visual indication of bonds between atoms.

B4. Use a rotate interaction to rotate molecules.

B5. Use a pinch interaction to scale molecules.

B6. Able to virtually navigate the virtual environment with a locomotion method of your choice.
- For B1-1 in VR, it may be teleportation, or real walking using HMD sensors.
- For B2-2 in AR, it may be real walking with the virtual objects anchored in place.

Other NON-FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Note that for each Bx criteria, the interactions should at least be executable on a desktop Chrome browser with interactions performed using a mouse and keyboard.

Furthermore, if you chose B1-1 (VR), the interactions should also be executable on another VR device of your choice. If you have no VR devices, you can get a Google Cardboard for your phone from us. Please email our ICT Professional Officer Department colleague Haja (haja.rowther@singaporetech.edu.sg) to arrange for collection. Please include your student ID and start your email title with “[CS3120]...“.

If you chose B2-2 (AR), the interactions should also be executable on a mobile phone or tablet device with a camera.

Note that you can also utilise the WebXR Emulator (https://github.com/MozillaReality/WebXR-emulator-extension) for your development. We will also utilise this tool to access your implementation for the AR/VR interactions.